# What to expect

In this project you will find my version of the tasks taken from the *Grundlagen der Computergrafik* course 2025/26 held in TU Wien. Vulkan API was used to complete the tasks.
The tasks cover fundamentals methods of computer graphics like:
* Modeling techniques
* Data structures for graphical data
* Sampling and reconstruction of signals
* Texturing
* Advanced shading
  
## Task 0: Hello Git/C++/Cmake
In this submission, it will be your task to get familiar with Git, our submission pipeline and opening your project in an IDE. To lower the initial effort, we provide a CMake project which is supported by editors like Visual Studio 2022 or CLion

## Task 1: Hello window
In the first submission, it will be your task to get familiar with C++, open an empty window, acquire the fundamental Vulkan handles, and set up a basic swap chain. 

## Task 2: Transformations, viewing and projection
In the second Task, shaders and the OpenGL shading language (GLSL), will be covered in more detail. Additionally in Task 2, movement and transformation of objects will be introduced. A simple camera is to be implemented which orbits around the origin by dragging and dropping the cursor.
### Boni 2: Specialization tasks for Task 2
In addition to rotations around the focus point, a strafe method is used to move along the local x and y axis of the camera. 

## Task 3: Procedural geometry 1
The third task deals with generating and rendering geometry. Complex geometry is often represented as a triangle mesh, which can be rendered using a graphics API such as Vulkan.  You will be tasked to generate the geometry of different shapes as indexed face sets, transfer the data to the GPU, and render that geometry with a graphics pipeline; similar to rendering the teapots in the previous tasks, just now rendering the geometry that you have generated by yourself.

## Task 4: Procedural geometry 2
In the context of this task we will deal with more complex geometry and Bézier curves. The subtasks require you to generate the indexed face sets consisting of a list of
vertices and a list of indices, for three additional shapes: a cylinder, a sphere, and a cylinder constructed along a Bézier curve.
### Boni 4: Specialization tasks for Task 4
In addition to the previous polygons, a torus is rendered in the scene.

## Task 5: Lighting and shading 

It is time to illuminate the scene. Light is an essential part of every virtual scene, and in this task the job is to integrate lights and illumination models (like Phong illumination model and Fresnel effect) into the application. Until now, meshes were only represented by vertices (positions) which are then connected to faces. 
### Boni 5: Specialization tasks for Task 5
In real-world environments, there are multiple light sources. Here multiple point lights, directional lights and spotlights have been implemented. An attempt of Physically-Based Illumination Model was also done.

## Task 6: Texturing 
Real-life objects are usually not colored in a single color but exhibit a surface structure that can be represented using textures. It could be said that textures are images, which are "glued" to the surface of an object. UV coordinates are a general approach to attach a specific texture location to a vertex.
### Boni 6: Specialization tasks for Task 6
The UV mapping of cylinders and spheres has been fixed, since some artefacts were visible in the "sewing" line. Not only diffuse, but also specular maps have been added in order to have multiple materia properties across each mesh.
